Hi friends
In this video we are going to learn about the return statement in C.
When the programme execution
reaches a function call the control goes to function definition
and when the programme execution reaches the return statement it
terminates execution of a function and returns the control
to the calling function. Now let us see the syntax
If we write return just like this it will not
return anything to the calling function but it will terminate
the function execution and gives control to the calling function
But if we specify any particular value or variable or
expression for example return 10, return a or return a+b
then given value will be returned to the
calling function and then it terminates the function execution and
gives control to the calling function
Now let us see a programme here
Execution will be beginning from main function and integer variable
ans will be created and next we have ans = sum(10,5)
So control goes to function sum and the arguments 10 and 5
will be stored in parameters a and
b then a+b is calculated and stored in
another integer variable result. so there is 15 in result now
Next we have return result
So this value will be returned to the calling function
main and function
Execution is terminated and control comes to main and 15
is assigned to Variable ans
Next we have a printf statement which will print 10 +5
equal to value in variable ans which is 15
and return zero Now What will happen if there are any
statements below the return statement If the programme execution reaches
the return statement the statements below that will not get
executed
So this statement here will not be executed
So that's all thank you watching this video.